High before we keep going.
I want a couple of you to actually know what is a database.
A database is just simply a collection of related data in an organized fashion.
Now we will be talking about databases a lot in this section so I need you to understand what it is.
Let me just give you a scenario here.
You hoping it sell and you have a spreadsheet ready in front of you.
You have columns and you have rows.
We actually organize data the same way as with spreadsheets we have columns in a database right.
Well we use tables for that but we have columns and we have rows and we can organize data depending
on what column it is.
For example first column we can put names in there and then inside those columns inside those little
fields we put the data well a database works just like that.
And we also have tables inside the database where we use to further organize our data inside those tables
there are going to be very similar to the columns and rows and you can compare tables to worksheets
inside the database.
All right.
Anyways we will be using my rescue l database system.
You can look it up online is very popular is actually one of the most popular database systems in the
world.
It is actually stands for structure query language.
The first word m y stands for the daughters name of the Creator.
Now it's open source.
I already said that is the most popular out there and it's great for the command station to keep that
in mind let me give you an example of a table inside the database.
Here we have a table called customers.
We have columns as you can see that in a vertical fashion there we have everything in yellow could be
a column.
And that first column is name.
Well actually the second column is actually name defined as first name and they inside the column we
have many different data of course of names.
Now rows are the vertical actually the horizontal line across.
That would be a road.
And as you can see they're highlighting their row second row with ID number two that green part.
There you see there is a field that would be the intersection between that column and the row.
Now that you will know and have an example of the table there inside the database is going to be easier
for you to understand everything we do.
When it comes to tables and databases inside our programs this session is going to give you some basic
understanding of databases and tables.
And again to jump.
Your level of understanding to another level is going to jump your understanding to another level.
Anyways I hope my illustration here will help you understand a little bit about databases and tables
and hopefully you will understand more when you see the demonstration on the lectures.
Thank you so much for watching this presentation and I see you on the lectures